>> Sanyam, happy to have you here on the live stream and about to kick off this podcast
recording.
>> Michael, I'm disappointed I didn't hear the Steve Ballmer remix intro.
>> Developers, developers, developers.
Oh, come on.
It's so good.
You know it's so good.
>> I remember that was in your first few episodes.
I think they came out right around the time I was in university.
But thanks for this opportunity.
I've been a fan and listener of the show
and really excited to be talking to you.
- Yeah, I'm really excited to have you.
I'm excited to hear about your journey into data science.
It's gonna be so much fun
because I feel like so many people out there
looking in from the outside,
they maybe didn't come into data science or to Python
from a traditional computer science education.
And they feel like, well, I didn't go through that path.
And so I probably, this is not a good fit for me.
And I think that's very far from the truth.
I think there's so many opportunities
to get into data science or to get into Python
and programming.
And while you do have some experience
with computer science at the university,
it sounds like as we'll learn through your journey
that a lot of what is actually effective
had very little to do with university.
- Let me start out on a spicy note.
I studied computer science at university.
at one of the best universities in the country,
it didn't make me a better programmer at all.
Let me start with that spicy opening.
(laughing)
- That is spicy.
Oh, now you've thrown it down.
And I wanna come back to that,
but let's just start with your story.
What got you into programming first?
Was this a university thing that you pursued
or were you interested in that beforehand
or how'd you get into programming?
- Sure, so I was the standard nerd definition.
I enjoyed spending time with computers.
Whenever my parents would go to sleep,
I'd figure out a way to sneak into the computer room,
just play games all night.
And along the way, I think somewhere in high school,
I discovered programming.
It was Java, unfortunately, but I saw the promise of it.
I saw all of these interesting things
that were happening around it.
And somewhere I just made up my mind that,
hey, I want to take up computer science
because that's what coders do, unfortunately,
not as I learned later.
But that's how I got interested in it.
And that's why I decided to take up a course in it.
- Yeah, that's fantastic.
I never took computer science as a major in college,
but I studied math and I had to take a couple
of programming courses to sort of fulfill
my math degree requirements.
And yeah, I found it to be a mixed bag.
I had to learn Scheme and Lisp and I thought, well, that's not super practical, but...
What a hoose.
But I've got to start here. I was like, please, let's do some C++ or something.
Like, no, no C++ for you. Darn it.
Then I was told I had to learn Fortran because it was the most important language I would ever learn.
Turned out to not be true, but I learned Fortran as well.
And eventually I got into some fun languages that I got to build some things.
But what I don't know how you felt, but my experience with being in a university,
and this is speaking from doing this in the 90s, so it could have absolutely changed, right? I
haven't gone back to a university since. But I didn't get a lot of projects that I really loved
that I was really super excited about. It was like, well, you're going to need to learn how
to do this algorithm by hand on paper, and you're going to need to how to implement this
in this sort of archaic, weird language.
You gotta do this other thing.
- You're compiling stuff in your head through people.
Talk about state of the art.
- Yes, oh my gosh.
I'm like, why?
Why do we not get to use computers
in our computer science course?
This is crazy.
I just don't get it, but here I am.
So I didn't come away feeling like it made me
a super good programmer.
It gave me some exposure and some interesting experience,
but my real exposure that got me into programming
and told me, like revealed to me,
like you can do this and this is for you
was when I was doing a research project
that had to do with math and not programming,
but it needed a little, it needed some programming
to do the simulations and do the work.
And I'm like, well, now this is super fun.
This is the kind of stuff I wanted to do.
And I was up at 2 a.m. working on it
in the computer labs then,
because all of a sudden it was really cool.
So I don't know, hopefully computer science
is more practical these days, but yeah.
I didn't get a big, I didn't find a huge value
in those computer courses I took at university.
- To be honest, like I relate to that so much.
I could just rant about this for hours,
but I signed up for computer science
because there was this notion in my head
that, hey, computer science is where you do
programming stuff, right?
You make computer smarter.
And then they're teaching us all of this stuff
that doesn't really make sense.
Like I remember listening to talk Python those days
and you were talking about PyPy,
which I didn't know what it was
because they never told us what it was.
And I'm listening to all of this stuff
and what they're teaching us is how to make for loops,
print out patterns.
Like I don't see how these things connect, right?
You're talking about flask building apps on top Python.
I just heard Michael talk about it,
but now what is all this stuff?
What is inheritance?
does it come into the picture? And there was this huge disconnect for me. So very much
echoed that experience as well, unfortunately. Yeah, that's interesting to hear you look back
on it. One of the things that you talk about in some of your writings and some of your experience,
and we'll get into it, has to do with top-down versus bottom-up learning. Before we get to that,
I want to make sure you get to answer both opening questions.
So what are you doing these days right now before we dive into that aspect of learning?
- Sure. I currently work at h2o.ai, which is a company building auto email products.
I'm sure we'll get into this later on as well.
I work as a content creator/engineer.
So we have a maker's gonna make culture,
which means that I have absolute freedom to bring ideas.
Usually people don't stop me and they encourage me,
which also means that I can do a podcast at work. I started a podcast a while ago called
"Chai Time Data Science" where I interview my heroes. A lot of them are Kaggle grandmasters.
So we can talk about this later as well, but Kaggle has different years. Grandmaster is the
highest one of them. S2O has, I think, more than 20 grandmasters. So at some point I said, "Hey,
can I interview our people?" And they said, "Yes." So I have a lot of freedom over stuff I do,
but it's a lot of creating content and things in those domains. So blog posts, videos, I get to do
meetups as well. - That sounds like a really fun job. - It is. - This whole exploring ideas and
creating content and interviewing people and just being out in the community,
it's the aspect of programming that when people first hear about it, I think is extremely
surprising, right? - Yes. - A lot of people think of programming, especially before they really get
it's this solitary thing that kind of geeky,
super smart people do mostly alone,
mostly to avoid other contact with others, right?
And then as you get into it, you learn like,
actually there's a whole lot of team dynamics
and programming.
And then there's these roles that are like
developer evangelists, which sounds pretty similar
to what you're kind of doing, like community outreach
on the dev side, which is very social
and outgoing and interesting.
And so, yeah, it's a whole spectrum.
- It's a lot of fun for sure.
And yeah, it would be closest to evangelism,
but also I have a lot of freedom to do a lot of,
honestly, anything I bring to the table,
usually I get positive feedbacks about it.
So I just keep doing stuff,
even if it's interviewing people, which I.
- Yeah, that's fantastic.
So back to my top down, bottom up thing
that you talk about.
In a lot of academic, high school, college settings,
the foundation is set at the beginning.
OK, well, we're going to teach you
how to do derivatives or differential calculus.
So what we're going to do is we're
going to start out real, real simple.
We're going to talk about what does a difference look like.
And then we're going to talk about limits.
And then eventually, like two months later,
you can do derivatives.
and you can actually do calculus, right?
But that first two months, you just have to have faith
that I'm just gonna keep cranking on the details
until something interesting happens.
- But even after those two months,
like you get to solve these problems,
you get to, at least for me, I was able to confirm
that, hey, the answers I'm getting
match with those in the book.
But what's the point of all this?
Like, okay, I'm able to solve these problems.
I know how to ace my tests.
I know how to match into that.
but where will this be used?
I'll never find out.
And I just didn't have the passion for it.
My only passion was I need to get good grades
to get into a good university.
But apart from that, I had no--
- I want a good job, but like, it's not the best.
Yeah, yeah, I hear you.
And I feel like so much of academics
and many presentations and courses
are done this way as well.
But especially academics,
because you have to finish it to get the grade,
to get the degree.
So they're like, well, it's fine if it takes three months
before this is interesting to anyone
because they have to stay here.
They don't have no choice.
Like we're gonna build up slowly bit by bit at a time
for three months because guess what?
They're all enrolled and they need this.
This is a required course.
And so we're gonna make sure we get every little detail
in place along the way.
And eventually it'll be interesting to them.
And I just feel like that is so backwards
from trying to capture inspiration of people, you know?
- Somehow every single time there's always this disconnect,
like, okay, I get it that at some point
you have to know the concepts,
but you never told of the bigger picture,
which is what is a larger focus in the top-down approach.
I never know where these individual things
will really be used.
It's like, before you get to drive,
you need to know about the thermodynamics of the engine
rather than sitting in the driver's seat.
- Yeah, there's a beautiful Ferrari
you wanna take out for a drive.
And you're like, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no.
"We're gonna study physics, study thermodynamics,
"a little chemistry for the combustion."
And then a couple of years,
you can take that thing for a drive.
- Exactly.
- And I feel like it actually captures it pretty well.
Contrast that with, well, let's just teach people
the rules of taking a derivative, right?
Derivative of X squared is two X.
Okay, great.
Now, let's show them how they solve cool problems.
Like, oh, here's a ball flying through the air
and we can figure out its velocity when it hits the ground
based on things like the derivative
and acceleration and so on.
And then eventually, once you're like,
this is really interesting,
then you could talk about like, all right,
now let's dig in, let's talk about like the details
of why this math or this data science algorithm works.
And it just, it doesn't really go that way.
So I think that's definitely an interesting part
of the journey that you had to make that switch, right?
To sort of go from this like really theoretical academic
- Background to, oh, I've got like a Kaggle competition
and I've got two weeks to solve the problem.
Like we can't be rebuilding it from the foundation.
Let's go the other direction.
- Yeah, and just to be clear to the audience,
I just did a bachelor's in computer science.
I didn't do a master's or PhD.
I gave up on academia midway, but yeah, I go on that.
And it's the top-down approach.
was introduced to this through fast.ai, they are a big advocate of this and that's how
I became a fan of this. Essentially, what they cover in their blog post is you're given
the baseball bat and you get to play first rather than being taught the physics of the
curveball. And I think, at least for me, in retrospect, the main challenge is throughout
all of these months of learning a subject in university, you need to be able to stay motivated
and remember why you've taken up a course. I took up web programming because let's say I want to
learn how to make websites and not because I need to remember what HTML tags come in the final
semester question every year. And somewhere in the middle you lose out on this motivation and
the top-down approach essentially takes care of that. That hey, bring your project and figure
out stuff along the way. And I think I mentioned in our interview, I think Talk Python courses
really cover this well because you're given 10 sets of projects and you can just build them
along the way. Yeah, thank you. Yeah, I mean, I really am a big fan of this because I think,
and I tried to incorporate the courses that we have, because I do think you need to have these
little wins right away. And you hear a lot of times people talk about like, well, if you're
you're teaching kids, the kids need to have these like good experiences early.
It's like, you know what?
Replace kids with people like people just, they've got a lot of time and other
options, and if you want to make them feel good and excited, like they're making
progress, they need to make progress.
Even if it's little steps at the beginning, make it feel like a legitimate
progress, not just algorithms and loops and stuff like that.
Yeah, absolutely.
So you went through your computer science degree,
but you didn't come out the other side
feeling like a data scientist.
And this was around the time of the MOOCs, right?
The massive online open courses.
Is that what MOOC stands for?
- Yes, I think so.
- M-O-O-S-D, I think so.
Something like that.
It might be several variations.
And one of those is over at fast.ai, all right?
focused on deep learning and data science type topics, right?
- Yeah.
So just going back to the OCDs,
like you said, I was just really unhappy
that, hey, there's this huge disconnect.
And like any smart person in their 20s,
I just spent a lot of evenings ranting about it.
And at some point I decided,
okay, this isn't gonna help me.
And I just started signing up for every single course
on the internet.
I used to say this proudly that I've done 50 plus courses
to my peers who would look up to me that,
oh, this guy's--
- Oh, I've only done 10.
- Yeah. (laughs)
But in retrospect, I was just being dumb
and chasing all of these courses.
Fast.ai in retrospect, and I keep saying this,
but it's the most impactful course in my career.
So Fast.ai is not just a course,
it's also community and software.
But I got introduced to top-down learning through them
and they make you excited about this stuff.
In the first lecture of the deep learning course,
they have a bunch of courses.
They teach you how to put together a few lines of code.
Of course, you don't know what's happening behind it,
but you build something that's state of the art
and Jeremy Howard, the creator,
shows you how you can get to the top of a leaderboard
on a Kaggle competition.
I don't know what's more exciting than that,
at least to someone who was printing out star patterns
in university.
- Yeah, that's really neat.
And I think the community aspect is also pretty important
having that ability to sort of bond with people there.
So MOOC, the M stands for massive,
like number of massive in terms of number of people,
because it's a large group,
I haven't gone through their courses or anything.
- I think at this point it's a few hundred thousand people.
sure might be more than that. That probably counts as massive. If you
compare it against a 30 person college course or whatever.
Yeah. The biggest mind opener for me was
we suck at diversity in tech. No other way of putting it.
Just talking to different people on these online communities,
people who don't have computer science degree or
were coming from different walks of life, I didn't understand that, "Hey, you're
you're supposed to have other responsibilities as well.
You're supposed to be helping your family out.
I just assume you can do this in your free time
and that's all you do.
But that was also a mind opener for me during those days.
- One of the things I really value
about the Python community is it's not just straight CS
to sort of deep applied Python
out of like this university chain,
but rather so many people are brought in
from different areas, right?
People are interested in biology
and they learn a little Python.
People are doing astronomy and they learn a little Python.
People are building Instagram and they're using Python.
So there's just this diversity of viewpoints
and specialties that comes to Python that's really unique.
And it sounds like you kind of got that feeling as well here.
- I was always very welcomed by,
And the FastA community especially
is very warm and welcoming.
So at least at that time, I went to Reddit
to ask a few questions.
And I got a lot of harsh feedback,
which really demotivated me.
But FastA community was the exact opposite at that time.
Reddit is a lot better now, and any other community
for that matter.
But it's a very welcoming community.
And no one says that, hey, kid, you're
not supposed to be asking these stupid questions.
even the creator himself, Jeremy Howard,
often hangs out in the forums, answer all of the questions.
So it really put back the inspiration in me
while I was just in this dark phase
of nothing making sense in university.
- Yeah, very cool.
So there's a couple of things that you've done.
Let's set the stage
and then we'll dive into the details on them.
So as you've gotten your degree,
if you've gotten better in data science and deep learning,
there's a handful of things you've done to sort of give back to the community and stretch yourself as well.
One is to work on your blog and write articles.
Two is to create your podcast, which I was happy to be a guest on a while ago.
It's very nicely done.
Thanks for saying yes.
It was a very exciting moment to host you, honestly.
Yeah, thank you.
And yeah, so the podcast and then also the Kaggle competitions.
So let's start with your blog posts.
I just pick a couple out of here that are interesting.
One of them is how not to do fast AI
or any other ML MOOC course, right?
- Yeah.
- And so you go through sort of how you approached
these courses.
You talked about how you took 50 courses,
which is on one hand,
I think it's really awesome to get that exposure,
but on the other hand,
to really master programming, you need to stop
and try to solve concrete problems, fail at that,
figure out like, well, I'm trying to solve this problem.
I can't even get a virtual environment set up
to let me install this library.
Like what is going, you have to hit your head against that.
And it feels like you're bad.
It's just, it's building layers of experience
in a way that like, it's not the funnest,
but you gotta go through those steps
and then you sort of work your way
into developing that experience.
There's not a super shortcut.
Having the courses helps give you the perspective
and know where to focus,
but it's still, you kind of gotta go through that path.
So maybe talk us through how you approached it
and then the advice you might have after.
- Yeah, so, and to counter back also,
just generally speaking,
maybe I'm not the most outward looking person,
But I didn't find these ideas of building any projects.
So I couldn't think of a website that would look interesting.
So I would just go to a course, assuming
that I would learn all of this stuff.
And a lot of these MOOCs are very nicely marketed.
They make you feel that, OK, I'm going
to come out learning something.
So I just followed this trail of stuff
that I would keep looking up.
I need to know Python, so I would do a Python course.
then I would take a course on different frameworks,
keep doing that.
And even at the end, I didn't accomplish much.
Because again, there was this huge disconnect.
Because if anyone would tell me to do anything
that's slightly outside of the curriculum,
I would fail at that.
And that's just because I didn't experiment as much.
And in retrospect, I should have spent at least twice
as much time just trying to code even the stupidest idea
possible instead of just watching those lectures.
Because they felt in my comfort zone
that, OK, I'm learning something.
But I wasn't learning something at that point.
Well, you are learning something.
I do think that being able to watch
the lectures of an online course and following along,
like you're getting real exposure and real stuff.
But you're not, even though you're feeling comfortable,
you're not at a place where if somebody said,
now go build something different,
it's not that different,
but it's different and do it from scratch, right?
You're not building up that skill set
unless you're also experimenting along the way.
- Yes, and I'm sorry, just to clarify,
so this wasn't for the first course,
I had taken like at least 10 of them
and I was watching the same stuff over and over again.
So at that point, it was a waste of time, I think.
- Yeah, for sure, for sure.
So you said, all right, well, I'm not so sure
that the way I was doing it was totally the right way.
So what would you say is the right way?
What some advice would you give there
for being successful in these online courses?
- Sure, I'll point out to a book by Radek Osmulski
who I had interviewed on my podcast earlier,
but he's put out a book that essentially talks
about different things that you should be learning
or how should you really approach learning.
And in his book, he talks about code twice as much
as reading theory, have this northern light of an idea.
I wasn't, again--
I couldn't think of anything, so I took to Kaggle competitions.
And in my opinion, at least in my opinion,
just do FastJ and then jump on to Kaggle.
Those are the two best places to learn about data science,
in my opinion.
That's it.
- So the Kaggle competitions are interesting.
Let's maybe talk about those for a little bit.
I haven't talked about Kaggle a lot on the show.
I'm sure people are mostly familiar,
but maybe not everyone is.
So just tell us, what is Kaggle?
- Sure, and fun fact, the CEO actually tweeted yesterday.
So at this point, Kaggle is at 7 million users, I think.
So when they say they're the home of data science,
it's really the biggest community in data science.
And why do I say community?
It has competitions that are hosted on the platform.
So different use cases for different companies
exist as competitions.
Now, as you can see, the first one is an example one.
But different competitions are brought onto the platform
by companies who want the community to solve a problem.
In return, there are prize pools.
But really, what people are there for
is the knowledge sharing that happens.
And how does that happen?
They also have very nice discussion forums,
as well as notebooks.
At some point, they called it kernels,
if you're not familiar.
But essentially, you can host Jupyter Notebooks
on the platform where people share their stuff.
And this is the best of the best on the platform.
So they share tips and tricks of how
you can approach the competition.
And then you start to try and compete on a leaderboard.
And you get real-time feedback, because there are, at times,
- Yeah, so we have a thousand people competing
on the leaderboard,
which may or may not be a good experience,
speaking from my experience,
at least for the first few competitions.
But it's very exciting.
- It's a little bit like a hackathon type of thing,
but very focused on a data science problem,
not on like generating an app or a website.
Maybe that's a good elevator pitch.
- Exactly.
- Okay.
So I'm sitting here looking at Kaggle.com/competitions.
And yeah, I can see a bunch of interesting things.
It doesn't explicitly say who it's sponsored by
on the outside.
Maybe if I click in, it'll say,
oh yeah, this is brought to you by,
or sponsored by, or put out by, so and so.
But the first one is a Simphysibio RSNA COVID-19 detection,
which sounds like a bunch of acronyms
I don't know anything about,
although I've heard of COVID.
The idea is to identify and localize COVID-19 abnormalities
in chest x-rays, which is interesting.
And that's a genuinely useful thing
that we could all benefit from, right?
Having machine learning that can assist doctors
and say, wait a minute, wait a minute,
this person seems to have either had
or currently has COVID based on this picture.
Let's do something about that.
That's genuinely helpful for society.
- And if I can just point out,
at least for this particular competition,
I think it launched a few days ago.
And just in those few days, you already have 450 people
that are, I can say just hyper,
they will be hyperactive in the discussions.
And a lot of us just go there for the learning.
I'm sure most of us just go there for the learning
and things you get to experiment with and learn on there.
- Yeah, and it says the prize for this is $100,000 US,
which is pretty sweet.
Is that split like number one gets half,
number two gets a quarter and it like trails off
Or is it all or nothing, number one or zero?
- I think it's in the top three, sometimes in the top five.
It varies from competition to competition.
And again, it's really hard to get into the top.
They have medals, they've gamified all of this stuff.
And how's that helpful from an outside perspective?
As you gain medals, you move higher up the ranks
as well as tiers.
So you start as a novice,
then you become a quote unquote expert,
master and then grandmaster.
So as you earn a certain set of medals,
you start on your path towards becoming a grandmaster.
So that's more exciting than the prize pool.
Again, legends or very experienced people
are aiming for the prize pool.
I don't think I've ever even dreamt of that.
- Right, if it's too far out of reach,
it's not worth trying to worry about that.
It's more about making the progress
and seeing yourself go up in the charts
and gain that experience, right?
- Yeah.
- Yeah, so let's see some other ones
I went and sorted by prize, the purse here.
So Jane Street Market Prediction,
test your model against future real market data.
That's interesting, there's 4,000 teams competing for that.
There's one about discover how data is used
for the public good in the US for 90,000,
that's pretty cool.
Major League Baseball has one
on digital engagement forecasting.
So predicting fan engagement
for baseball player digital content.
- That this launch, I think less than a day ago
and there are already 15 teams on there.
I'm sure if you go over to this competition
you can see some stuff in the discussion
and kernels already.
- Yeah, one that is very close to my heart
is SETI, breakthrough listen,
ET signal search.
So find extraterrestrial signals
in the data from deep space.
That's pretty cool. The prize is not huge, but you know, if you were the person that discovered aliens, come on, that's a pretty good prize.
And that's just zooming back to where this conversation started. Like I said, I'm not the person who could think of these ideas. And now I'm given this large number of options. Whatever is exciting to me, I can jump on that competition.
for that competition, even if I have zero idea
about how to approach that problem,
there'll be plenty of stuff that's shared there
and I can just go from there, I can just start learning,
I can just try to approach this in a top-down fashion.
- Yeah, absolutely.
So another one of your blog posts that you wrote
is your first Kaggle competition experience,
writing basically retrospective on that.
So maybe tell us what that was like.
- Sure, so in this competition,
And I tend to set these goals every year.
So I just announce my goals, go big or go home, right?
I just tweet out the craziest stuff
that I couldn't imagine.
Last year I wanted to lose 50 pounds,
I managed to lose, I think 70 pounds.
- Congratulations, that's massive.
- Thank you.
But yeah, I just set these goals
and one of these goals was to start on competing on Kaggle.
So in this competition, my first one ever,
and all of these competitions are a similar experience.
I just joined the quick draw rural competition
because again, it looked exciting to me.
And what I did at that time was just went to the discussion.
I found people sharing stuff, sharing code.
I just took that, tweaked a few numbers,
tweaked a few parameters, didn't make much sense.
And I started moving up the leaderboard.
So the leaderboard is the most exciting
and most addicting thing on Kaggle
because you're getting this real time feedback.
Okay, I'm doing better than these people.
And then you go to bed, you wake up,
someone has shared a tip or a trick
somewhere in a kernel or a discussion,
and now everyone has used that.
And by the time you wake up, you're down there.
- I see.
They're like, oh, you're all just training all the data.
What if you use like transfer learning
on this little subset?
This is actually totally crushing it.
Everybody's like, we're changing what we're doing.
And you wake up and you're falling down
the leaderboard massively, huh?
- Exactly.
And again, now you have to get back to work.
One thing you talked about in your blog post was how going through it, you got some pretty good real world experience, right?
You talked about how you took all the training data, and the data is a lot for this competition.
There's like a billion images described as a CSV file
or something weird like that.
And each image, and so you took all that data,
loaded the training data, not all the data,
and loaded it up and sent it over on your GPU.
And it took 50 hours, like more than two days.
And it cranked away.
- I remember that.
- And you expected you're gonna crush it, right?
And it turns out that like,
actually that made it less accurate, right?
So you had to get more creative.
Maybe tell us about that.
- Yeah, and again, this was this disconnect that I found
from these MOOCs that I was coming from
with everything is just structured so nicely
that it's supposed to work.
And I just took that approach,
okay, I'm just gonna check all of the data in a data loader,
put it on my GPU, let it train,
and I'll get a good accuracy there.
It turns out not really,
because it's not how this problem was structured.
And again, I learned about all of these,
I think from a practitioner's perspective,
important things where I learned,
I need to structure my project in a way because at some point I'll be on untitled 152.ipython
notebook and I need to go back. I wouldn't have a track of that. I should probably do smaller
experiments rather than the first one being a 50 hour long experiment. So I should try and figure
out how to run it on a subset of the data. Yeah, that's a really good point because if
you're waiting 50 hours per iteration that's not going to go very quickly.
it sounds very easy and very obvious,
but it wasn't to me at least.
Maybe I was stupid at that point.
- Well, I wouldn't say necessarily that.
I mean, it probably seemed like,
well, of course, if it's working a little bit,
let's just give it all the data,
then it's gonna really work, right?
That's a pretty reasonable, naive, beginner point of view.
- Yeah.
- That that's gonna be totally fine.
But then in reality, you know, reality comes along,
you're like, well, it's more complicated.
So you ended up coming with a combination of some of the larger images, some of the smaller images,
and building up out of that kind of stuff, right?
Yeah, so I learned that, hey, maybe I should start with 1% of the training data,
put up a baseline, again, obvious stuff, and then try to work with different image sizes.
And what I was trying to do is see if the accuracy, according to my local validation,
was going up, and submitting it to the leaderboards, and just checking if it's actually
working and then training bigger models through that. At that point, ResNet was, I think,
state of the art. And that's what I was sticking to because I didn't have any outside
idea about that. Other people were, of course, doing a lot of things and I was just trying to catch up.
Sure. So you're a fan of Kaggle. You recommend people come along and use this for concrete ways
to get started and build their knowledge beyond just theoretical stuff?
100% I would just say in retrospect I would just tell myself to hey do fast
a sincerely once and then just sign up for any competition and go from there.
Is it better to do it with a team of people do it by yourself?
I'll be honest sometimes I would not be the person working the hardest in the team so
I would tell myself to at least start solo and then team up with different people. Everyone
follows different approaches, but at least for me, I tend to be the lazy person. So I would
make sure that I've done some homework before asking other people to join the team.
Yeah, that makes a lot of sense. But apart from that, when you join your team and all of my
Kaggle quote-unquote successes, I would credit it to all of the teams I've been a part of.
And then you get to meet all of these data scientists in a team where they're from different
levels of experience and they're doing these things that I couldn't have imagined. So it's
again a greater learning experience in that sense. Yeah. What's the story in terms of
like people who are in the talk you talked about them being grandmasters or whatever they're
called yeah there's grandmasters, masters, experts, contributors and novices in the ranking here.
What's the job story look like, the career story?
So if I'm over here and I'm one of the 1,500 masters
in Kaggle, dropping that information at a job interview,
is that gonna get me somewhere or not, do you think?
- It depends on the company a lot.
So we, when I say we, the company where I work,
H2O has a lot of Kagglers.
We have 20 grandmasters.
I think out of the five we can see right now,
three are a part of H2O.
- Oh my gosh, yeah, that's like 10% of all of them.
That's awesome.
- Oh, sorry, four in the top five
are a part of H2O at this point.
Three of them, sorry.
- Yeah, amazing.
- So yeah, at such a place,
they of course recognize the fact that this isn't easy.
If you're a master, you're probably already in the top one,
top 0.5% of the global rankings,
and there's a lot of work behind that.
So I think it does make a lot of sense.
Some companies don't recognize it.
maybe I've been involved to work at those companies again.
- Yeah, that's actually an interesting point, isn't it?
Like if the person interviewing you
for a data science position doesn't know about Kaggle
and respect like massive progress there,
maybe you don't wanna really be on that team.
Unless you're like, we're hiring you to like modernize this
and set the stage and like bring like the real,
the real stuff to us, right?
But if it's like join the team,
we'll show you how it's done.
and saying, "Eh, you don't know what Kaggle is, okay."
(laughs)
- But yeah, again, it's just a portfolio of projects.
You can tell everyone that,
"Hey, I've worked on this problem
that your company is working on."
And against the best of the best,
I ran, let's say, 10 out of 1,000.
And that should be a huge signal to the hiring people.
- I agree.
I think, put aside the competition,
put aside the, how do you rank against other people?
If you can come over here and say,
Oh, you see this major league baseball
digital engagement thing?
Yeah, I did that and it came out pretty well,
actually solved that problem.
And here's my GitHub repo for that
and our conversations around it.
This one about prediction of future sales also did that.
And then this home price one,
actually I was near the top of that.
Just having that kind of portfolio to share
as part of an interview is so incredibly important.
So many people ask me, "Oh, I want to get a job in this thing. How do I get started? Do I need
a degree X or should I go learn this technology or that technology?" All those things are
interesting and valuable, but something I really like about the tech industry,
but it's also challenging because that's kind of where you got to live, is
it's not so much your credentials or your background that will get you the opportunities.
It's I need somebody that does this. I need somebody that knows how to predict
house prices. You predicted house prices. You've shown you can do it. You're hired,
right? Like if you can show that you're doing the thing that they already need,
there's not a whole large discussion going on after that, right? You're really close to
being in the right place to do that thing. So building up this portfolio is important, I think.
I managed to somewhat figure this out in my university days,
out of an interest just to explore problems that I started freelancing, which was because I wasn't
allowed to have a job job while being in university. And at that point, I figured out, hey,
if I'm going to approach a person on, let's say, Upwork, and they want me to build something,
I shouldn't be starting after we've had that conversation. If I can just look at the problem,
even put together the most basic structure around it, and I can show it to them that, hey,
I put this together in two days.
If you hire me, I can build this in X amount of days.
Most of the times that got me through the clients
or whatever deals I've got in that world.
- Yeah, and getting that first or second project
under your belt, it's really important.
I feel like Kaggle's part of that.
Also, Upwork is interesting that you bring that up.
I'm a fan of Upwork.
If I was starting out and trying to get my first project,
my first job and I was having a hard time in my local area finding that, I'd certainly consider
looking and seeing what jobs are out there in Upwork, even if I thought they didn't pay very
well or I didn't totally want them. Just having that one or two projects done and part of my
resume, then you can start looking more broadly and it's just going to be such a help to have
some kind of portfolio. I mean as a student the pay really didn't matter. It was a lot as a
student but my biggest promotion in life was going from that basic food menu to looking up
that menu as I started making money. That was exciting. It almost felt illegal that hey someone
is paying me to write code. Yeah, yeah. I remember my first job I was so super excited it almost
didn't matter what they could have paid minimum wage and I would have been thrilled about it
because oh my gosh, someone's paying me to learn programming.
And look, I have a book.
I'm spending half my time just learning how to do this.
I mean, they're basically paying me to learn this stuff.
It's amazing.
So yeah, I really, really had the same feeling
when I was getting started.
Fantastic.
All right.
So another interesting area around what you're doing
has to do with your podcast.
So maybe we could talk about a couple of your interviews
that you've done that you really liked.
that you found interesting.
So yeah, you want to tell us about a couple of them?
- Sure, so at some point, how this started
was I was doing all of these.
I was trying to essentially explore
different areas of content creation.
I started with blogging.
Fast AI gurus, Jeremy Howard, told us to write blog posts.
So I started doing that.
And at some point, I found this disconnect of advices.
So I reached out to a friend that, hey, would you--
you've been helping me a lot.
Is it OK if I put this together in a blog post
and put it out in the world?
And that went on for a while.
I started this as a blog series.
And later, after I graduated, I thought, OK,
maybe if I do this as a podcast-- and I'm sure you would agree.
I could explore all of these great people's mind
in a bigger depth.
So that's how the podcast started for me.
Yeah.
- Well, I think one of the big secrets
about having a podcast is I get to be the first listener,
basically, to all these interviews, right?
I mean, I guess now that we're live streaming,
it would have like 50 first listeners or something,
whatever it turns out to be.
But it's really amazing, the opportunity
to just meet these people that you're really interested in,
especially with conferences being gone and stuff now,
that's really hard to find time to like meet up
and just talk about them.
But hey, you can have them as a guest on your show.
It's really nice.
- Exactly.
So coming back to my favorite interviews,
I try to interview people about their journey.
Someone, as someone who's trying to understand
how did this great person, Radek Osmulski,
we have Radek Osmulski's interview on top.
He's one of my heroes from Fast.ai.
But how did someone like him learn programming?
How did they learn how to Kaggle?
How did they break into the field?
and we, at least in the interviews, I try to ask them,
did you face this problem?
How did you overcome it?
My three favorite interviews would be Radek's,
Dima Damin's and Radha's.
So I try to interview people who are Kagglers,
practitioners and researchers,
essentially anyone I can find
who would like to share their journey.
And these are from all three aspects, essentially.
- That's cool.
Dima, Damon, she did video recognition and computer vision.
- That sounds super interesting.
- And I remember in her interview,
I started by asking her,
"Hey, when you were doing your research,
"you were just using OpenCV.
"What do you think about it nowadays?"
Apart from that,
it's also a lot about her research perspective.
So Dima is very much experienced
and is a great orator as well.
So she was talking about
how to approach your first research project
or how to just go about research.
What is even research?
someone who doesn't understand what that word means and that's what I try to explore in all of
these interviews. Yeah, so let's go back to Kaggle for just a minute because something you touched on
is really interesting. I know there are a lot of research teams and groups at universities
who are trying to build models, they're trying to build mathematical algorithms, they're trying to
to do research, I feel like maybe some of these Kaggle competitions would be really,
really good to say, as part of our research project, let's take what we're trying to develop
here and try to actually apply it to one of these competitions and see where it stands.
For sure. And it's highly encouraged, at least in the community, some organizers, so the
sponsors of the competition invite you to present your solution even in research conferences.
And apart from that, even if you end up creating a blog post or a research paper outside of
it, the community is very close and they recognize it instantly.
And they know that, I mean, nothing against research, but at least this particular solution
has been tried and tested against this leaderboard and it works really well.
It is quite cutting edge because it's been tested against all of these people.
Yeah.
Very neat.
All right.
queued up for us is Andrada Altianu.
Yeah, Altianu, yeah.
- The best part about these interviews
is I just get to meet all of these people
with such amazing energy and such openness
about their journey.
This was again, such a fun interview
because Andrada was so open about her journey.
I was, at that point, I was just starting
my journey in data visualization
and I asked her, "Hey, Andrada, did you feel the same
"that you couldn't plot things against X and Y axis
and then you would have a hard time figuring out where they are ending up,
because at least for me, I couldn't understand what's going on.
And yeah, that's that's what we discussed about.
And she was essentially talking about how she started her journey
as someone who's fairly new to coding.
And at this point, she's become a Kaggle Grandmaster in kernels.
And she's been writing all of these amazing notebooks.
And in this interview, we just learned about how she went about that
as someone who just started out and then learned all about this
as they went about it.
>>Yeah, that looks like a really interesting interview,
and somewhat similar to the conversation we're having here,
right?
>>I think so, yes.
>>Yeah, yeah.
All right, one final area that I want
to make sure we get to spend some time on is,
you work at h2o.ai, and have had a lot of experience
with these different frameworks.
Maybe we could do a survey of the various deep learning ML
libraries and you could sort of tell me how they compare and your thoughts on the various ones.
Sure, so the vision set forth by our founder, co-founder and CEO is Makers Gonna Make and what
we're trying to do on a philosophical level is just create products that allow people to build
stuff. So with that vision and this is just my take on it not from a company's perspective,
they've built together all of these auto ML products.
So, Wave being the latest one, I'm sure we'll talk about this, but apart from that
they started out with the open source H2O3,
which was an auto ML framework. It's still one of the most widely used ones,
followed by Driverless AI, which is an end-to-end
auto ML product, where essentially you just upload your data,
and what I like to call the Ironman mode,
where you just click a button, it figures out what models need to be trained,
does all the feature engineering, and puts out a nice model for you.
So we have this arsenal of Ultramel products at this point, open source and both enterprise facing
aimed at different problems, Wave being the latest one of them.
Yeah, yeah, Wave, H2O Wave is pretty interesting. I guess it's at wave.h2o.ai,
And it's a real-time web app dashboard
for Python and data science.
And a lot of the data science things I see
are about making static graphs,
or maybe graphs that you can go and explore.
Like I could move my mouse over
and it'll highlight information about different parts,
and I could zoom into it and whatnot.
But this is like a real-time changing dashboard,
like a stock market, or like a factory,
or something like that.
what's happening as time passes. I wish you said crypto market.
Yes, exactly. So the reason I spoke about the philosophy is because I think this is the next
bigger goal for the company. What we're trying to create is, and I'm not sure if this is out yet or
not, we're trying to build a public app store of AI apps. So Wave is an open source framework
that takes care of a lot of the things that as a data scientist, at least I wouldn't want
to worry about. I don't want to learn HTML, CSS, JavaScript. So it's just a framework that takes
care of all of the UI, UX stuff, does it very nicely. I don't have to worry about messing up
because it's taken care of. And then I can build different AI apps. As a company, what we're trying
to do is we're also putting out an app store where you can already use the open source apps if you
want. And you can also contribute your own apps if you want.
Yeah, very cool. So, there's a bunch of cool examples. There's a whole gallery full of
many, many different things that you can go and write. Basically, Wave is an open source
dashboard for Python developers that don't have to do web stuff, but they can share it as the web,
right as a website. Exactly. And just to be clear for the audience, when I say we,
my biggest contribution would probably be this interview. But again, it's this amazing team of
engineers who have been building these products at H2O that they know how to scale them and how to
properly engineer them through all of this experience. It's really a data science focused,
data scientist focused product. Yeah, you know, excuse me, every now and then there's like a
project, I'm like, or something out there, like, I really wish I had a reason to use
this. This looks like really fun to play with. I just have no use for it personally.
This is one of those things, right? I would love to have an excuse to use something like this and
make it go, but I just don't have that much data that changes that much in my world.
Maybe you could put together a web page of Talk Python where different episodes structure
and the listeners can see a dashboard in real time.
- That'd be cool.
Like maybe downloads in real time
and interaction in real time, comments.
Yeah, for sure.
Something like that.
- Yeah.
- Yeah, I mean, I could definitely like put
a little bit of something,
but if you worked at a place that like
had a lot of stuff going on,
like a factory or like a big e-commerce site or something,
you could make a really cool live app out of this stuff.
I feel like.
- For sure.
It's still under development.
And all of our grandmasters who have this rich experience
are also contributing to it.
So I'm sure by the time this interview goes out,
we would have added a lot to it.
- Yeah, that's cool.
It's already got 2.6 thousand GitHub stars.
That's pretty cool.
So really, really nice.
Maybe let's talk about some of the other mainstream ones as well,
like Keras, TensorFlow, Fast.ai.
Give us your thoughts on these different frameworks.
obviously it's your opinion, not like a
an endorsement or a deep dive or whatever,
but just what do you think about these
people or do you have experience with all
of them?
Yeah, just to be clear, I strongly endorse
Fast.ai, I've been a fan of that, that I'll
agree on, but from that I
started my journey with
TensorFlow and at least in that day,
of course, TensorFlow has come along with
the Keras API has been merged, but I was
really struggling with it because it had
this static
graph structure and it didn't feel
Pythonic. Not that I was a good Python programmer, I'm still not. So that's why I took to Fast.ai.
And what cares is to TensorFlow, Fast.ai is somewhat to PyTorch. PyTorch follows this
more Pythonic approach and Fast.ai is a wrapper but more on top of PyTorch.
Okay, interesting. Yeah, so Fast.ai is maybe a little easier to get started with, you think?
Yeah, sure. So the nice thing about FastAI is it is a very heavily opinionated library. So there
are a lot of things that have been baked into it. And for some reason, whenever I just switch to
PyTorch, I'm not able to replicate similar accuracies. That's what I mean, because
somewhere the defaults are so good that it always gets better results. But essentially, it's this
layered API and from an end user perspective I could just use the high level API where they have
on the left you can if you click on applications you can see the different applications that they
support or if I want to work on something that's cutting edge I can also use the training loop
which is really nice and just bring in a pytorch model and connect that. Yeah okay yeah that looks
It's really cool.
Again, computer vision.
I want to build a game that play-- a computer game,
computer game AI that plays me in real life.
Like put a camera over, say, a chessboard,
and it'll play me, but not just on the screen,
but as I actually move the things, it'll see.
That'd be fun.
Maybe I can try that out here.
Sounds really cool.
Yeah.
Yeah, just a little bit of interaction
with some real something or other there.
That sounds cool.
but a lot of options these days, right?
And we've got all these different deep learning libraries
and yeah, many, many things to choose from, right?
- Again, one of the things that I've learned
at least from the podcast
and this is the collective opinion
of everyone I've interviewed.
Again, you don't need to worry about the framework
as much as you really understand the concepts.
So that's why I encourage fast here
because it's also a course around the framework.
So you once, at least from my perspective,
when I've gotten around to learning all of these things,
it shouldn't be that hard to switch to another framework,
depending on whatever your job requires you to do
or whatever your project needs you to use.
- Yeah.
Cool, yeah, learn the foundation,
solve the problem one way, and then you can solve it
with some other library more easily again and again.
- It's really hard for me to remind myself that,
hey, the problem is what I'm trying to solve
and not create more problems.
I don't want to learn more of different things,
but I need to figure out how to minimize my time
in a way that I actually solve the problem.
- Yeah, I think one interesting thing
that people learn as they get more experience
is even if the technology is super different, right?
If I learned how to build something interesting
in JavaScript, I think maybe I know nothing about Python,
so how am I gonna do that?
But actually what you've learned over in one place
is really way more transferable and reusable.
like the way of just thinking about solving problems,
the way of thinking about,
okay, I gotta pay attention to this and not that.
So what's important in this library,
picking the right library, are these things and so on.
- And of course, you should keep switching
between frameworks as well.
The thing for me was I was switching
as a very early stage developer,
I'm still a very early stage,
if I can even call myself a developer.
And I was switching between frameworks every 15 days
just because they looked exciting.
that's not the right thing I would tell myself to do.
(laughing)
- Yeah, this is true.
This is true.
Get comfortable in one and then you can move around.
But yeah, don't just chase the shiny thing
all over the place for sure.
Although in the data science world,
there's so many shiny new things
that there are to pay attention to,
and visualizations and libraries
and charting and graphing and whatnot.
It's easy to get distracted, I think.
- For sure, and that's why I mentioned
I need to remember what I'm working on.
So I need to make the graph
and not figure out how to make it prettier
as long as it does what it's supposed to do.
- Yeah, exactly.
- That framework looks exciting.
Maybe I should try that over the weekend
and now I'm spending.
- More like here's an excuse to try that framework.
This is my chance to try it.
So I'm gonna go do it.
- Exactly.
Cool, all right.
Comment on the live stream.
Davidas says, "Hey, some advice on getting started
"on web development or data science, Python."
I'll throw out a little bit, then you can add your thoughts.
I would say you need to have some foundation in just Python basics.
You need to know variables, loops, functions, that kind of stuff.
But don't, kind of like the beginning conversation we had,
don't go so deep and say, "Well, I've got to completely understand everything about this language
before I take the step to my first web app,
or before I take the step to firing up Jupyter and doing my first analysis."
Like, don't do that.
Just get comfortable with the basics.
Start building, and as you go into more advanced areas,
then you're like, okay, well now I kinda need to learn
about what is a list comprehension.
But I didn't need it before,
but now I'm gonna like just add it on as you need it.
Don't try to exhaustively learn Python.
And then, Sanyam, what would you say like after that?
- Michael, but first question for you,
what are the basics really?
That's one thing I really struggle with.
I still struggle with because I look around on Twitter,
everyone smarter than me is talking about this stuff.
And they say, it's pretty basic.
Is it?
Am I the stupid person who needs to know all of this?
- Well, here is the interesting thing.
Like there's the people who are blogging,
the people who are recording YouTube videos
or people who are tweeting about things,
they're already at like some certain level.
And then they're super psyched about something advanced
that they've just learned,
or some really cool scalability thing that they've learned.
And there's a really good article says,
titled something like,
you're not Instagram, you're not Google,
you're not LinkedIn or so.
So you don't need all these crazy design patterns
and this like crazy cloud architecture
that companies like that have,
because you're a two person startup
that doesn't even yet have a business.
Build something simple, worry about,
zero downtime chaos monkeys later.
Focus on the simple, right?
And I think there's a lot of people that are fascinated by either looking up, like, look
where we could go and look at what Instagram is doing, look at what Google is doing.
And they are amazing and interesting what those companies and teams are doing, but they
don't apply to you now.
So I think there's just a lot of really interesting conversations about stuff that's interesting,
but not applicable to people who are beginners at all.
right? So I need to master Dockers and Kubernetes? Probably
not. Can you run it on your computer? Yes. Okay, then start
there. We'll worry about Docker. Like once you get something
working, maybe we'll put it in a container, but not now. Don't
worry about that now get started.
Exactly. And just just build. So to the person asking this
question, focus on getting the website up and give yourself a
deadline. That's that's why I love setting rules publicly give
yourself 10-20 days to figure out the Python basics and put together first website. You
won't like it in retrospect, you might hide it from a GitHub. I do that a lot. And over
time you'll polish it. It doesn't have to look like, like you said, Facebook or Instagram
when it comes out. It just needs to function somewhat when and sometimes you'll click a
button something will fail. But then you figure out that, okay, I need to fix this now. And
now you have stuff to do. And then you can think of other things. Okay, maybe I should
Maybe I should add this.
Maybe I should add a button.
You're making progress already.
- Yeah, yeah, absolutely.
And the other thing to keep in mind
is that software is plastic.
It's malleable.
It can be changed.
You don't have to get it right the first time.
You have to just make progress.
Then you've learned more than you change it
and you make more progress.
And so many people can get hung up,
like not even getting started.
'Cause like, oh, I'm not really sure how to get started.
Like, just take a step.
If it's wrong, you take a step
at a slightly different direction
you get in the right place.
That's how you do it without getting hung up,
without trying to boil the ocean by learning everything.
- Exactly.
- All right, maybe that's a good place to leave it there
for that conversation.
But yeah, it's super interesting to hear your story
and congratulations on the success
coming from getting started with small projects in college
to working for H2O AI.
- I'm still learning a lot,
but again, thanks so much for this opportunity.
like I said, I think there are two types of teachers. First, that they introduce you to
something and the second that make you really interested in it. You were the second one to me
because I just got so excited about all of these things through your podcast and of course there
were others as well but you were a major part of it and yeah thanks for this opportunity.
Oh yeah, thanks so much. Now you're not out of here yet though, you got to answer the
the two final questions. If you're going to write some Python code, what editor do you use?
Jupyter notebook. Okay, yeah, right on. And then is there some library or something on PyPI you've
come across where you're like, "Oh, this is super cool. Gotta tell people about this."
I keep running into all of them every second day.
But I would say just discovering Fast.ai was the biggest wow moments for me.
Yeah. All right. So Fast.ai. Perfect. That's a good one.
All right. Final call to action. People are interested. They're maybe also listening,
get into programming, get into data science, and what advice do you have for them?
Just build something or just go to Kaggle if you can't figure out what project to work on.
I still struggle with that inspiration a lot, so I would just tell myself to go to Kaggle and sign
up for any competition that I like the most and go from there. Probably take fast.ai along the way
and you're all set. All right, fantastic. Well, thanks so much for being here and catch you later.
Thanks so much. Yeah, bye.